Draft: Admin Generator Documentation (#3381)
vivid-planet/comet: docs/docs/1-getting-started/4-crud-generator/2-admin-generator/index.md

---
title: Admin Generator
sidebar_position: 2
---

The Admin Generator can be used to generate grid and form components based on `GQLTypes`.

Contrary to the API Generator, the Admin Generator does not use Decorators to define its options.
The configuration is done in its own config file.

:::info

> Many file examples can be found in the [Comet Demo](https://github.com/vivid-planet/comet/tree/main/demo/admin/src) project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many example configs can be found in the [Comet Demo](https://github.com/vivid-planet/comet/tree/main/demo/admin/src) project.
```

:::

## The Generation File

The generator finds files based on the `.cometGen.ts` file ending. A file with another ending will not be recognized.
The name of the config file determines the name of the generated file.
The name of the configuration component determines the name of the generated component.

:::caution

> Take care when creating a new config file. A file with the ending `.cometGen.tsx` will not generate.

Reviewer: IMO we should fix that.

Author: @nsams Informed me, that there is already a PR for this: https://github.com/vivid-planet/comet/pull/3297

Form fields are defined in the `fields` array, next to all general options.
A detailed description of all available options can be found [here](/docs/getting-started/crud-generator/admin-generator/form-generator).

```typescript
export const ProductForm: FormConfig<GQLProduct> = {
    type: "form",
    gqlType: "Product",
    // general options
    fields: [
        {
            // field definition
        },
    ],
};
```

### Configuration of a Grid

To generate a grid, a configuration object with the `GridConfig<GQLType>` type is needed.
Grid columns are defined in the `columns` array, next to all general options.
A detailed description of all available options can be found [here](/docs/getting-started/crud-generator/admin-generator/grid-generator).

```typescript
export const ProductsGrid: GridConfig<GQLProduct> = {
    type: "grid",
    gqlType: "Product",
    // general options
    columns: [
        {
            // column definition
        },
    ],
};
```

:::info
The minimum requirements to generate a grid or form are the `type` and `gqlType` options and at least one `field` or `column`.
:::

> ### Configuration of Tabs

Reviewer: I'd probably remove it then.
